Add section on attacks (#10)
tlswg/external-psk-design-team: draft-group-tls-external-psk-guidance.md

## Security Assumptions

As discussed in {{use-cases}}, there are use cases where multiple clients or multiple servers share a PSK. In such
cases, TLS only authenticates the entire group. Not only can a compromised group member impersonate another group
member, but a malicious non-member can reroute handshakes between honest group members to connect them in unintended
ways.

> The TLS external PSK authentication mechanism implicitly assumes that each PSK is known to exactly one client and one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TLS external PSK authentication mechanism implicitly assumes one fundamental property: each PSK is known to exactly one client and one
```

> server, and that these never switch roles.  If this assumption is violated, then TLS 1.3 offers virtually no security by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
server, and that these never switch roles.  If this assumption is violated, standard TLS 1.3 security properties invalidated.
```

> default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> TLS 1.3 tries to maintain 8 security properties in the handshake.  A naïve sharing of PSKs, even assuming only honest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TLS 1.3 tries to maintain the following eight security properties in the handshake:  

1. Matching the same session keys;
2. Session key secrecy;
3. Peer authentication;
4. Session key uniqueness;
5. Downgrade protection;
6. Forward secrecy with respect to long-term keys;
7. Key Compromise Impersonation (KCI) resistance; and
8. Endpoint identity protection.

A naïve sharing of PSKs, even assuming only honest
```

> but curious participants know the key, can violate all these properties, bar one.  The protection of endpoint identities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but curious participants know the key, can violate all these properties, bar one.  Endpoint identity protection
```

> property holds vacuously, because the client and server do not use certificates in PSK mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
holds vacuously, because the client and server do not use certificates in PSK mode. (This is not true with use of the "tls_cert_with_extern_psk" extension {{?I-D.ietf-tls-tls13-cert-with-extern-psk}}.)
```

> The other property violations can be demonstrated with three attacks of increasing severity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following sub-sections, we list attacks that demonstrate violations of these properties when the fundamental PSK assumption.
```

> ### Simple redirection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Redirection (Selfie-style)
```

This attack simply requires the adversary to reroute messages without changing any of their contents.

Let the group of peers who know the key be `A`, `B`, and `C`.

> The attack proceeds as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The attack proceeds as follows:
```

1. `A` sends a `ClientHello` to `B`
2. The attacker intercepts the message and redirects it to `C`
3. `C` responds with to `A`
4. `A` sends a `Finished` message to `B`
`A` has completed the handshake, ostensibly with `B`.
5. The attacker redirects the `Finished` message to `C`
`C` has completed the handshake, ostensibly with `A`.

This attack violates the peer authentication property, and if `C` supports a weaker set of cipher suites than `B`, this
attack also violates the downgrade protection property.  This rerouting is a type of identity misbinding attack
{{Krawczyk}}{{Sethi}}.  Selfie attack {{Selfie}} is a special case of the rerouting attack against a group member that

> can act both as TLS server and client. In the selfie attack, a malicious non-member reroutes a connection from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can act both as TLS server and client. In the Selfie attack, a malicious non-member reroutes a connection from the
```

client to the server on the same endpoint.

### Lack of DHE
If the client performs a PSK-based handshake without a DHE exchange, then another trivial attack is possible.

Let the group of peers who know the key be `A`, `B`, and `C`.
The attack proceeds as follows.

> 1. `A` sends a `ClientHello` to `B`, without including a key share

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `A` sends a `ClientHello` to `B`, without including a key share.
```

> 2. The handshake is completed as expected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The handshake completes as expected.
```

This attack violates the secrecy of session keys property, because even an honest but curious `C` can decrypt the
session between `A` and `B`.  This attack also violates forward secrecy, because a future compromise of `C` reveals the
contents of the session, however {{RFC8446}} notes that PSK-based handshakes without a fresh DHE do not achieve this
property.

### Compromise of an uninvolved node
If the attacker compromises a client or server then the session is definitionally insecure, however sharing the key with
more than one client and one server means that compromise of a different actor can lead to attacks.

Let the group of peers who know the key be `A`, `B`, and `C`.

> The attack proceeds as follows.

Reviewer: nit: Some steps below are missing terminal periods.

1. Let the attacker compromise `C`
2. `A` sends a `ClientHello` to `B`
3. The attacker intercepts the message and creates a new `ClientHello`
4. The attacker sends the new `ClientHello` to `B`
5. `B` responds to `A`
6. The attacker intercepts the message and creates a new response
7. The attacker sends the new response to `A`
8. `A` sends a `Finished` message to `B`
`A` has completed the handshake, ostensibly with `B`.
9. The attacker intercepts the `Finished` message and creates a new `Finished` message
10. The attacker sends the new `Finished` message to `B`
`B` has completed the handshake, ostensibly with `A`.

> This attack, and minor variants of it, violate the remaining properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This attack, and minor variants of it, violate the remaining properties outlined above.
```

The attack violates the same session keys property, as `A` and `B` have each completed a session, ostensibly with each
other, and yet do not agree on the session key.  If `A` does not send a key share, then the attacker can have a session
with `A` and a separate session with `B`, where both sessions have the same key. This violates the uniqueness of session
keys property.  In the case of KCI resistance, where we assume the attacker has compromised `A`, the attacker can
successfully impersonate `B` to `A` using this pattern.

> These attacks demonstrate the need to do something more intelligent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We can refer back to these attacks in the recommendation text!
